## Distributed Systems - Assignment 1.

__Objective:__ Design and develop a secure, serverless REST API for managing movie review postings. The API will be hosted on the AWS platform, and your submission must include the infrastructure code required to provision the AWS resources using the CDK framework. 

__Completion date:__ 26/11/2023.

__Weighting:__ 40%.

__Deliverables:__

1. A text file (asp-assignment1.txt) containing:
   + The URL of the GitHub repository. 
   + The URL of the YouTube video demonstrating the API. 
   
Notes:
+ The repo README is the documentation of the work you have carried out and must be complete and accurate. A template will be provided later.
+ Your repo's Git log must be a clear, understandable and coherent history of the work on this assignment. The commit message must summarize the work performed (What task were you working on?) at each stage.

### Detailed Specification.

The REST API should support the following endpoints:

+ POST /movies/reviews - add a movie review.
+ GET /movies/{movieId}/reviews - Get all the reviews for a movie with the specified id.
+ GET /movies/{movieId}/reviews?minRating=n - Get all the reviews for the movie with the specified ID with a rating greater than the minRating.
+ GET /movies/{movieId}/reviews/{reviewerName} - Get the review for the movie with the specified movie ID and written by the named reviewer.
+ PUT /movies/{movieId}/reviews/{reviewerName} - Update the text of a review. (movie ID and reviewer username uniquely identify a review item).
+ GET /movies/{movieId}/reviews/{year} - Get the review(s) for the movie with the specified movie ID and were written in a specified year.
+ GET /movies/reviews/{reviewerName} - Get all the reviews written by a specific reviewer.
+ GET /movies/{movieId}/reviews/{reviewerName}/translation?language=code - Get a translated version of the review for the movie with the specified movie ID and written by the named reviewer.

#### Authentication. 
The app stack should include a separate API (the Auth API) to support user authentication. It should allow users to self-register, login, and log out. 

#### Authorization.
Only authenticated users are allowed to perform  
POST and PUT requests, whereas GET requests are public.

#### Amazon Translate.
"Amazon Translate is a Neural Machine Translation (MT) service for translating text between supported languages .... enabling developers to build applications requiring support across multiple languages. The service can be used via an API, enabling either real-time or batch translation of text from the source language to the target language." [AWS Docs][translate]

See [this video][demo] for a demonstration.

#### DynamoDB table design.
The app requires one table - MovieReviews - where the schema for its items will include the following attributes:

+ MovieId (Partition key) - Number
+ ReviewerName - String (a username).
+ ReviewDate - String, e.g. "2023-10-20".
+ Content - String (the review text).

For this assignment, you can assume there will never be more than one review for a particular movie on the same date. All reviews are written in English.

You must choose the required primary key and other aspects for this table.

### Development strategy.
You should adopt an incremental approach to the development of this project. Each stage will involve the addition of infrastructure (CDK stack code) and backend functionality (Lambda functions)

The series of iterations could be as follows:

1. The CDK stack only consists of the DynamoDB table and seeding logic. (No lambda functions required)
2. Add a REST API with one endpoint to return all the reviews for a movie. The CDK stack now has an API Gateway instance to expose the app's functionality, and the backend consists of one lambda (Lambda A).
2. Extend the REST API to support the POSTing of a new movie review and add the supporting backend lambda (Lambda B). Ignore validation of the POST body for now (optional).
2. Expand lambda A to allow for query string parameters.
2. Extend the REST API to support GET requests for a review of a movie written by a specific reviewer. Add the associated lambda (Lambda C).
2. Include validation of the request body for new review posts (Lambda B).
2. Add a second API Gateway instance for processing authentication requests - the REST Auth API. Provide endpoints and accompanying lambdas for Registration, Confirmation, and Login. Suspend authorization handling until later.
2. Configure the POST and PUT endpoints of the REST App API as protected routes.
2. Extend the REST App API to support GET requests for a review of a movie written in a particular year. Add the associated lambda (Lambda C)
2. Extend the REST App API to support GET requests for all reviews written by a specific reviewer (username) (Lambda D).
2. Extend the REST App API to support updates (PUT request) to a review's text. Add the associated lambda (Lambda E)
2. Extend the REST App API to support requests for translations of a particular review (Lambda F).

### Grading Spectrum.

__Good (40-55%):__

Functionality - Many GET review endpoints; Add (POST) review endpoint. (Lambdas A, B, and C).

__Very Good (55-75%)__:

Functionality - All GET review endpoints (excluding translations). Update (PUT) review endpoint.

Security - Authentication and Protected routes - the REST Auth API.

__Excellent (75+)__:

Functionality - Review translations.

Infrastructure - Lamdbd layers or Multi-stack app.


[translate]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/translate/latest/dg/what-is.html
[demo]: https://completecoding.io/typescript-translation-api/

