## Cloud App Development - Assignment Specification.

__Objective:__ Demonstrate your understanding of the serverless services available on the AWS platform by designing and developing a web API for a movie information system. Your submission must use the CDK framework to provision the AWS resources required. 

__Completion date:__ xx/11/2025.

__Weighting:__ 50%.

__Deliverables:__

1. A text file (assignment.txt) containing:
   + The URL of the GitHub repository. 
   + The URL of the YouTube video demonstrating the API. 
   
Notes:
+ You are advised to set the visibility of your GitHub repo to PRIVATE to prevent plagiarism of your work. After the deadline date, you will be reminded to make it publicly accessible so that it can be assessed.


+ The repo README is the documentation of the work you have carried out and must be complete and accurate. A template will be provided.
+ Your repo's Git log must have a clear, understandable and coherent history of the work on this assignment. The commit message must summarise the work performed (What task were you working on?) at each stage.

### Detailed Specification.


#### The Web API.

The REST API (App API) should meet the following endpoint requirements:

+ GET  /movies/movieid
+ GET  /actor/actorid
+ GET /movies/movieid/actors
+ GET /awards?
+ GET /movies/movieid/actors/actorid
+ POST /movies - add a new movie item
+ DELETE /movies/movieid

+ A PUT request to update an item.
+ A GET request that returns an item with all its text attributes translated to a specified language, e.g. GET /things/partition_key/sort_key/translation?language=fr (French). Ideally, the API should __perform a translation once__; translations should be persisted and recalled for repeat requests.

#### Data types.
The core data types required by the app are:

+ Movie
     + movie ID - number
     + title - string
     + release date - string
     + overview - string
+ Actor
     + actor id - number
     + name - string
     + bio - string
     + date of birth - string
+ Cast (Movie cast)
     + movie id
     + actor id
     + role name - string
     + role description - string
+ Award (Awards could be for an actor or a movie)
       + award id - either a movie id or an actor id
        + body - string (e.g. Bafta, Academy, Golden Globe)
        + category - string (e.g. Best Actor, Best )
        + year - number


#### DynamoDB table design.
The database design will follow the Single-table design principle. All data types (movies, actors, etc) are stored in __one table__. The table's partition keys will be the ID of the data entity, prefixed with a character to distinguish the entity type. The prefixes used are:
+ Movie - m.
+ Actor - a.
+ Cast - c.
+ Award - w. 

The partition key value (excluding the prefix) for the different entity types are as follows:
+ Movie - movie id.
+ Actor - actor id.
+ Cast - movie id.
+ Award - movie id or actor id. 

The table has a composite primary key, where the sort key value depends on the entity type, as follows:
+ Movie - xxxx (default)
+ Actor - xxxx (default)
+ Cast - actor id.
+ Award -   body name

Sample table items are as follows:

A movie
m1234  xxxx  The Shawshank Redemption  05-03-1995  A banker convicted of uxoricide forms a friendship over a quarter century with a hardened convict .....
a6789  Morgan Freeman,   Born on June 1, 1937, in Memphis, Tennessee. After serving in the U.S. Air Force, he began his acting career in New York, gaining early recognition on the children's show The Electric Company ....  01-06-1937

c1234    6789   Ellis Redding   A contraband smuggler serving a life sentence. Red is being interviewed for parole after having spent 20 years at Shawshank for murder .....

w1234.   Academy   Best Movie. 1995
w6789   Academy    Best Supporting Actor  1995

#### Authentication. 

The app has two forms of authentication:
+ Username and password credentials for users.
+ An API key for the administrator.

User credentials are managed by the Cognito service. The CDK stack should include a separate web API (the Auth API) to provide user authentication for the App API. It should allow users to self-register, login, and log out. You are allowed to reuse the Auth API developed in the labs.

, and has a separate REST API for clear separation of concerns - the Auth API. This API accepts registeration, signup and signout requests. All HTTP GET requests to the App API require user authentication. 

The stack generates an API key at deploy-time, and the administrator uses it with database change requests as authentication.

#### Authorization.
Only authenticated users are allowed to perform POST and PUT requests, whereas GET requests are public. A table item can only be __updated by the user who added it__. 

#### Amazon Translate.
"Amazon Translate is a Neural Machine Translation (MT) service for translating text between supported languages .... enabling developers to build applications requiring support across multiple languages. The service can be used via an API, enabling either real-time or batch translation of text from the source language to the target language." [AWS Docs][translate]

See [this video][demo] for a demonstration.

### Grading Spectrum.

__Good (40-50%):__

+ Functionality - Support for basic GET (no query string) and POST endpoints.
+ Database: Seeding.

__Very Good (50-65%):__:

+ Functionality - All GET endpoints (excluding translations), POST and the PUT endpoint. PUT constraint.
+ Security - Authentication and Protected routes.

__Excellent (65-85%):__

+ Functionality - Text translations. Persist translations. Repeat translations should be avoided.

__Outstanding (85%+):__

+ Infrastructure - Lamdbd layers or Multi-stack app.

### Development strategy.
You should adopt an incremental approach to the development of this project. Each stage will involve the addition of infrastructure (CDK stack code) and backend functionality (Lambda functions). This approach should be evident in your repository log.

[translate]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/translate/latest/dg/what-is.html
[demo]: https://completecoding.io/typescript-translation-api/

